my name is Adam and I am NOT a chef I am
a person who cooks I cook food for
myself and my family here in our house
cooking for a living at least in a
certain context has become a much higher
status occupation in recent years and I
think that's good in many ways it's good
when people who do laborious creative
work are recognized as the gifted
artisans that they are and it's good
when they're paid as such so thumbs up
to that but the flipside is that now
this thing that you and I and most
normal people do as a basic component of
domestic life has become not just a job
but a profession and the card-carrying
members of that guild often look upon us
just cooking in our homes as though we
are kind of practicing without a license
nowhere is this toxic dynamic more
evident than in the notion that all of
us who cook must have knife skills
certain ways of handling a knife are
among the first things that a person
learns in culinary school and/or the
restaurant trade and as a result these
techniques have become the Shibboleth
that trained chefs used to distinguish
their exalted class from the rest of us
every group of self-important people has
something like this in the journalism
world that I came from those of us
who've paid our dues working at legacy
news outlets recognized our fellow Club
members with obscure and mostly
inconsequential points of style like
using an Associated Press style
abbreviation for a u.s. state as opposed
to the postal abbreviation for that
state which is what most normies do you
use a postal abbreviation and we know
that you're not a member of the club how
dare you try to gather and disseminate
timely information of relevance to an
audience aka report the news you're not
in our priesthood you're not even
wearing the special robes that's
actually an unfair comparison because
knife skills actually have a practical
function in the professional kitchen
they're not purely symbolic or
ceremonial what I would challenge is the
notion that what is good for the
professional kitchen is necessarily good
for the home kitchen that's as absurd as
saying what's good for a professional
bodybuilder is good for a guy who's just
trying to stay reasonably fit hi Jay
love you and miss you let me try to
prove this to you with math I think when
most people talk about knife skills
they're really talking about one
specific technique
known as the claw most of us mere
mortals stabilize the food with the pads
of the fingers on the non cutting hand
in culinary school they teach you to
tuck your fingertips up so that the
worst you could do is shave a little
skin off of your knuckles be really hard
to cut into your fingertips doing this
at least that's the theory and practice
does using the claw technique actually
prevent injury I don't know I haven't
been able to find any kind of scientific
research on the subject certainly
professional cooks say that it does and
I'm willing to accept the validity of
their lived experience as the kids say
these days as though there's any other
kind of experience but I don't think it
necessarily follows that the claw is
right for all of us the claw is awkward
it always makes me feel like my hand is
gonna cramp up the claw takes practice
it feels very unstable to me especially
when I get down to the end of whatever
I'm cutting I have no doubt that I could
master this technique if I put in the
time and energy but I simply see no
reason to when there is a much simpler
much more natural and I suspect just as
effective technique of keeping my
fingertips safe that I will call the
walk don't run technique when you walk
your weight is always on the ground
distributed across your whole foot when
you run you actually leave the ground
with every step you generally kind of
bounce off the ground from your forefoot
the claw is great for what I would call
doing a running chop when the knife is
almost kind of bouncing off of the
cutting board and it never stops moving
up and down it's like a piston if you
watch my cooking videos you could be
forgiven for believing that I cut with a
running chop but watch when I play this
footage back at the original speed see
I'm walking not running the knife stops
moving at the bottom of every single
chop I bring it back up again reset and
cut that is a walk don't run cut now I
like to use fast motion shots in cooking
videos for two reasons one I like to
show you every single action that is
necessary to prepare a meal I hate
cooking shows where Sun prepared
ingredients come out of nowhere like
this Marco Pierre White fish stew video
chunky fish stew Mediterranean style
very easy very simple very
quick 10-15 minutes this is a woman pan
dish all sounds reasonable until he's
finished the dish and then he scatters
on some perfectly julienned vegetables
where did those come from and did you
include the work of cutting those into
your 10 to 15 minute time estimate oh
and they're blanched too that means they
were boiled in water for a minute and
then usually shocked in an ice water
bath he needed a pot to do that so it's
not really a one pot dish now is it
Marco I think that kind of cooking show
gives you an unrealistic notion of how
much time and work you're signing up for
I don't think you want to watch me
cooking in a real time so I use fast
motion to quickly show you every single
thing you'll need to do if you want to
make what I'm making the other reason I
use fast motion is that I think it's
incredibly satisfying to watch something
anything being made very very fast but I
feel bad that in the process I might
have given a lot of people the
impression that they too need to be
mowing through things the way that Marco
does he'll even Marco says you didn't
have to turn them into matchsticks like
I do I'm quite competent with the knife
so it's easy for me weave your knife
skills on that grate just chopping just
chop just chop your food into smaller
pieces however you can however it feels
comfortable and safe to you I think the
key is just to take it slow I mean when
you're taking a blade to your body do
you feel compelled to blast through the
job like you've got a hundred other guys
waiting in barber chairs for their shave
no you take it slow because a sharp
razor is a thing to be respected like
one from hairy is the sponsor of this
video I've been shaving with Harry's for
years because most other razor brands
are kind of cheesy and stupid expensive
Harry's founders Jeff and Andy we're all
so sick of overpaying for over-designed
razors so they bought their razor
Factory in Germany and now you can get
these scary sharp blades for only $2.00
or refilled delivered straight to your
door this is the new travel kit that
Harry's sent me this will replace my
standard travel toiletry kit consisting
of a plastic bag I'm so classy you get
travel sized shave gel post shave balm
body wash all in quantities that are
small enough for airport security I
always like the sense of Harry's
products they strike me as adult and not
trashy
you also get this typically gorgeous
Harry's weighted handle you can get five
dollars off your Harry's kit at
harrys.com slash Adam are you'll be
doing us both a favor that link is in
the description
five dollars off Thank You Harry's as I
said when wielding a blade I think
working slow will keep you out of most
trouble and here's another analogy from
the exercise world the deadlift that
most gloriously troglodytic exercise of
lifting something very heavy off the
ground and putting it back down again
the dead in deadlift means you're
supposed to start each repetition of the
lift from a dead stop the weight is
entirely on the floor no longer
supported all by your body at the bottom
of each rep that's as opposed to kind of
bouncing it off the floor like this
you're never really fully putting it
down here there are many reasons to
start the deadlift from a dead stop but
one of them is to reset your form get
your chest out and your back straight
and rigid before every single pole if
you don't do that you start to look like
a Drake his back is all around it and
he's exposing himself to the possibility
of grievous spinal injury which is why
everyone made fun of him for this just
like a deadlift I reset my form every
chop when I'm cutting food if I became
distracted if a child suddenly came
barreling into the kitchen or something
I don't think I would slip and cut
myself because I'm reestablishing my
concentration on every single stroke
nothing is on autopilot here if I got
distracted I think I would just
naturally stop there is of course a
reason that professional chefs tend to
use the claw and a running chop instead
of doing what I do what I do is super
slow but I only have one onion to cut up
they have to get through a 50-pound bag
of onions and here comes the math part
this half of an onion I chopped up in 35
seconds that's by walking this half I
chopped up in 15 seconds by running that
means that I can save myself a grand
total of 40 seconds on my day by using a
running chop on the whole onion that I
need for my dinner big deal but if I
were chopping a hundred onions for a
restaurant forty seconds and onion adds
up to more than an hour saved that
actually is a big deal professionals
need to cut quick I don't and you
probably don't either it's rather like
driving I Drive like a grandpa and I am
proud of it because I understand math a
whole bunch of people in my neighborhood
make the same basic eight mile drive as
I do every morning when I take my kid to
school it takes me about 20 minutes
which means I'm averaging 24 miles per
hour which is not bad for city traffic I
see all these a-holes around me doing
psycho demolition derby Olympics just so
that it can get to the red light and
start waiting a few seconds before I do
and for what let's say very generously
that their average city traffic speed is
30 miles per hour instead of my 24
they've saved a whopping four minutes on
their Drive Wow whatever will you do
with all of your spare time that's
assuming that you made it there alive
you didn't crash and die in contrast if
you're a long-haul trucker doing a
thousand mile route pushing your average
highway speed from say sixty to seventy
that's gonna save you more than two
hours and that actually matters it's all
about scale people if you're doing
anything remotely hazardous at a modest
scale just do it slowly there's no point
in doing it fast now you might be
wondering well Adam do you have any
evidence to back up the notion that
cutting slowly with your fingers out is
just as safe as cuttin fast with your
fingers in no I don't have any evidence
but neither do you
I have scoured the scientific literature
for any quantitative research on
accidental injuries involving kitchen
knives and there's basically nothing
there's lots of research about
intentional knife injury is stabbing
suicides that makes sense to me there's
lots of research about repetitive stress
injuries involving knives that's of
great relevance to the meat packing
industry so that makes sense to me but
what I would think is a basic area of
home and occupational safety is
strangely under-researched we don't know
what kinds of cutting in the kitchen
tend to make people hurt themselves the
best I can do is give you some sense of
what kinds of foods tend to be
associated with knife injuries in the
kitchen here in the US we have something
called the national electronic injury
surveillance system it's a public
database online where you can see
anonymized records of hospital emergency
department visits filtered by what kind
of consumer product may have been
involved so here's what I downloaded
every single ER visit in the States from
2018 involving product code oh four six
four
that's cutlery semicolon knives about
seven thousand incidents from 2018 the
most recent year available each of these
has what they call a narrative attached
to it 33 year old male was
limes with a knife and cut left thumb or
56 year old female states she was making
dinner when she became angry you know
what you did I did a little analysis of
these narratives and came up with this
visualization it's linked in the
description this shows the number of
times that specific foods are mentioned
in these narratives about knife injuries
most often mentioned is the generic
vegetables or veggies right under there
is of akkad o 151 mentions of avocados
in these ER narratives there actually
are a couple of studies about avocado
cutting injuries specifically because
there really has been a sudden epidemic
of such injuries accompanying the sudden
popularity of the avocado here in the
States after avocado we have the generic
meat followed by potato onion chicken
apple melon I notice a little pattern
here lots of round hard fangs
look how high lemons and limes are on
this list from this data I would guess
and this is just a guess this is not
definitive this is not scientific this
is my guess I would guess that what this
tells us is that cutting round things is
one of the most dangerous things that we
can do things that can roll therefore
hopefully we can protect ourselves by
making round things flat before we do
anything else to them which is a
standard technique of knife skills but
again that's just a guess and it's one
that the scientists I consulted on this
caution to me against making too hastily
thanks by the way to dr. wendy shields
at the Johns Hopkins Center for Injury
Research and policy who checked my work
on all this now if you're a public
health researcher or graduate student I
think there's a great opportunity here
to do some needed work in this area but
in the meantime with nothing but my own
common sense to go by I will continue to
do a nice slow walking chop with my
finger tips straight out because that
helps me hold the food more stable and
you do you get your food into smaller
pieces however feels right to you just
don't let some chef bully you into
thinking you're not a real cook because
you can't go speed kills arrive alive